All right I think you get the idea here as to what spring is and what it solves.
But did we solve our problems.
Not quite.
Actually we're still a couple and dependent on application containers to actually have a running application
that's where spring comes into picture.
Let's take a look at subring boot and what it does.
Let's assume that you have a spring application that has worthless components.
We're already drowned in the configuration of SML files and all that stuff we might have spring security
spring data spring and we see and so on.
But how are we going to deploy this and how are application running.
Well as you're most probably familiar with the concept that we have to fire up an application server
JBoss or glass fish or something else then we have a deployment descriptor for all of our different
kind of application components.
Next step is to deploy our application archive and what will be either a web archive or an ear which
is an enterprise archive and have it up and running oh gosh look at all these steps.
No no no big no.
Why bother with all that stuff.
For your application you already have the foundation with sping framework at the spring boot on top
of it just as pictured in the diagram.
And here you have it you have an application that doesn't require any kind of applications for or even
a startup configuration.
Imagine that simply executing a jar file to run you over applications.
Isn't that cool.
It definitely is.
Spring boot makes it easy to create standalone production grade spring based applications that you can
just run.
It also takes an opinionated view of a spinning platform and took part to libraries so you can get started
with minimal fuss most spring applications need were a little spring configuration.
That's a really important part of what spring boose has to offer.
So just to compile a list of highlights for spring boot tremendously easy to create standalone production
grade applications.
This is not some marketing keyword.
This is what really the spring has to offer.
When we start digging into development you'll see how beautiful and easy to create a functioning and
resilient application.
Create and run your application with just in notation Springboro has its own annotations specific application
mainly at Spring Boot application.
You annotate a class that you use as a starting point and Sprint considers that a Boot application.
That said build any kind of application as a single runnable jar file be a command line application
API get way or a highly complex web application you name it.
Spring has the ability to combine all these together in a kind of magical way and all you have to do
is just run the jar file very very little configuration.
For most applications in earlier sections we discussed how hard it was to work with all those deployment
descriptors and Exham else while no more unnecessary configuration with spring anymore spin configures
your application to defaults automatically.
So in some cases you don't even have to configure anything.
Isn't that beautiful.
Spring runs a custom embedded version of tomcat to contain your application.
This is one of the most important benefits of swing boot itself.
Having a single runnable job file for all of your application is made possible that way.
All you have to worry about is your way of implementation.
Well since brink takes care of almost everything from wiring up the BS to default configurations you
can use your precious time to focus on the details of your application.
So now it's time to practice with spring boot.
But before we do we need to set up our development environment to do that.
I'll see you on the next section.